Human Interface for Robotic Control
=======================================
(last updated README.md on April 5th, 2016)

Human Interface for Robotic Control is a final year design project in the
Department of Systems and Computer Engineering at Carleton University. It came
in 2nd place out of 42 groups consisting of 122 students. The application is
written in C++ and the firmware was written in C.

![Poster](http://i.imgur.com/AQzoXzv.jpg)

Abstract
=========
In the past, developing robotic systems with complex hardware designs were great
challenges due to unavailability of parts and high costs. The challenges with
hardware limited the possibilities of developing robotics systems for time and
budget constrained projects. With recent advances in 3D printing technology and
motion sensor capabilities, integrating complex robotics hardware designs are
now practical and cost-effective. This greatly expands the opportunities
available for students, researchers, and hobbyists.

The vision of this project is to develop a low cost, high availability, embedded
robotics platform. It can be used to serve as the foundations for developing
robotic applications that replicate human movement. Possible applications for
this project range from manufacturing plant assembly lines, to bomb diffusion,
and remote surgery. Features such as remote control over internet and
record/playback of user action are useful in widening the scope of future
development opportunities.

The project must accomplish 3 major tasks: The hand motions of the user can be
tracked and replicated on a robotic hand to a high degree of accuracy and low
latency. The connection between the robotics hardware and the user terminal must
be wireless. Finally, the project must incorporate features and development
methodologies that allows further opportunities and easy integration on top of
existing accomplishments.

A Leap Motion controller is used to interpret user hand motion, while an open
source 3D robot InMoov serves as the hardware backbone. Servomotors and sensors
are integrated to achieve actuation and feedback. A microcontroller
with WiFi capability enables wireless connectivity. A graphical user interface
and playback feature will augment the user experience.

Demonstration
==============
[![Demo](http://i.imgur.com/sazN6cm.gifv)](https://youtu.be/myWYUMi4jxU)

(Click on the gif to go to youtube video demonstrating the project)

Acknowledgements
=================
Gael Langevin, for providing the open source 3D printed robot (http://inmoov.fr/)

Professor Richard Dansereau, for acting as a supervisor to this project
(http://www.sce.carleton.ca/faculty/dansereau.html)

